add documentation for requestPointerLock() unadjustedMovement option (#23100)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/element/requestpointerlock/index.md

```js-nolint
requestPointerLock()
requestPointerLock(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An options object that can contain the following properties:
    - `unadjustedMovement` {{optional_inline}}
      - : Disables OS-level adjustment for mouse acceleration, and accesses raw mouse input instead. The default value is `false`; setting it to `true` will disable mouse acceleration.

### Return value

> A promise that returns {{jsxref("undefined")}}.

Reviewer: Note that Chromium-based browsers are the only one to return a promise. Firefox and Safari don't return one.

Author: I updated my demo to use

```
canvas.addEventListener('click', async () => {
  await canvas.requestPointerLock({
    unadjustedMovement: true
  });
});
```

And it works fine in Firefox/Safari. Wouldn't this fail if they didn't support the promise version?

Reviewer: It works because await is allowed in front of a function that does not return a promise. However it is misleading as developers may think the `unadjustedmovement` option is supported when it's not. See https://web.dev/disable-mouse-acceleration/#disable-mouse-acceleration

Author: Ah, thanks for the explanation.

I've tried to write an async/await equivalent of your promise testing code, but I've come up against all kinds of weird issues. How would write one?

Also, since this "just works" in browsers that don't support the promise version and the `unadjustedmovement` option, would there be any harm in me just adding some explanation around what is going on here, rather than coding a detection mechanism?

Reviewer: The problem I see with `await` is that people may use `requestPointerLock().then()` and this will throw.
Code below looks good but I'm not sure if it fits MDN.

```js
function requestPointerLockWithUnadjustedMovement() {
  const promise = myTargetElement.requestPointerLock({
    unadjustedMovement: true,
  });

  if (!promise) {
    console.log("disabling mouse acceleration is not supported");
    return;
  }

  return promise
    .then(() => console.log("pointer is locked"))
    .catch((error) => {
      if (error.name === "NotSupportedError") {
        // Some platforms may not support unadjusted movement.
        // You can request again a regular pointer lock.
        return myTargetElement.requestPointerLock();
      }
    });
}
```

Author: This looks fine to me; I was just wondering about they best way to write an async/await equivalent. I tried, and couldn't find something that worked.

Tell you what — I'll add a separate section containing this code that explains the problem, and I'll also add a note in the example section about why await code works, that highlights the problem and then points to this.

Reviewer: Here's how MDN handles play returning a promise. https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/API/HTMLMediaElement/play

Author: I've updated the return value section so it is more consistent with that.

```js-nolint
requestPointerLock()
requestPointerLock(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An options object that can contain the following properties:
    - `unadjustedMovement` {{optional_inline}}
      - : Disables OS-level adjustment for mouse acceleration, and accesses raw mouse input instead. The default value is `false`; setting it to `true` will disable mouse acceleration.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with {{jsxref("undefined")}}.

> **Note:** Some browsers do not yet support the promise version of `requestPointerLock()`, just the older synchronous version.

## Examples

> An obvious use for pointer lock is an online game, when you want your mouse movement to be focused on controlling the game, without the distraction of the mouse pointer moving around, going outside the game area, or reaching the edge of the window.

Reviewer 2: Sorry to be annoying with these wording changes again but I think much like phrases like "simply do X", the use of "obvious" makes an unnecessary assertion about the reader's knowledge and makes less knowledgeable readers feel sad.

```suggestion
Pointer lock is often used in online games, when you want your mouse movement to be focused on controlling the game, without the distraction of the mouse pointer moving around, going outside the game area, or reaching the edge of the window.
```

Author: FWIW, I don't think you're being annoying with such comments; I totally agree with you. But it is weird how ingrained such language is in tech writing. I use it much less than I used to, but sometimes it just slips in ;-)

```js-nolint
requestPointerLock()

> requestPointerLock(options)

Reviewer: Note that the support with options came with requestPointerLock returning a promise. This is new. See https://github.com/w3c/pointerlock/pull/49/files

Author: Ah, I did already update the BCD in https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/pull/18459, to correct the support version and add a note to make the lack of Linux support clear. But it already got merged. I'll open a new one to add a note about the promise version being added. From a quick test that I made (https://pointer-lock-promise-demo.glitch.me/), it looks like this works in Chrome/Fx/Saf.

```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An options object that can contain the following properties:
    - `unadjustedMovement` {{optional_inline}}
      - : Disables OS-level adjustment for mouse acceleration, and accesses raw mouse input instead. The default value is `false`; setting it to `true` will disable mouse acceleration.

### Return value

None ({{jsxref("undefined")}}).

## Examples

An obvious use for pointer lock is an online game, when you want your mouse movement to be focused on controlling the game, without the distraction of the mouse pointer moving around, going outside the game area, or reaching the edge of the window.

To enable pointer lock, you would get the user to interact with the UI in some way, perhaps by pressing a button, or the game canvas itself.

```js

> canvas.addEventListener('click', () => {
>   canvas.requestPointerLock();
> })

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
canvas.addEventListener("click", () => {
  canvas.requestPointerLock();
});
```

Author: See above comment.

```

Operating systems enable mouse acceleration by default, which is useful when you sometimes want slow precise movement (think about you might use a graphics package), but also want to move great distances with a faster mouse movement (think about scrolling, and selecting several files). For some first-person perspective games however, raw mouse input data is preferred for controlling camera rotation — where the same distance movement, fast or slow, results in the same rotation. This results in a better gaming experience and higher accuracy, according to professional gamers.

To disable OS-level mouse acceleration and access raw mouse input, you can set the `unadjustedMovement` to `true`:

```js

> canvas.addEventListener('click', () => {
>   canvas.requestPointerLock({
>     unadjustedMovement: true,
>   });
> })

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
canvas.addEventListener("click", () => {
  canvas.requestPointerLock({
    unadjustedMovement: true,
  });
});
```

Author: Thanks @Josh-Cena ; I agree with the semi-colons — added in my next commit.

For the quotes — back when I worked for Mozilla, I was of the understanding that we always used single quotes in JS, and double quotes in HTML/CSS. Does our style guide now explicitly say we use double quotes everywhere? Happy to follow the convention if so, but just checking.

Reviewer 3: Yes, we use Prettier now, and Prettier defaults to double quotes, so so do we 😄

Author: OK, works for me. I'll update these pages, and use double quotes in my future work.

> canvas.addEventListener('click', () => {
>   canvas.requestPointerLock({
>     unadjustedMovement: true,
>   });
> })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
canvas.addEventListener("click", async () => {
  await canvas.requestPointerLock({ unadjustedMovement: true });
});
```

Author: Agreed; updated

```

For more example code, see:

> - {{domxref("Pointer Lock API", "Pointer Lock API", "", "nocode")}}

Reviewer 3: So bad we can't converge on one choice for indicating "no code formatting". I prefer `1` if I have to, but usually Markdown links should be preferred

Author: For the choice of string, I honestly don't think it matters; I went with "nocode" because it is a little more intuitive than some other random string.

For macros versus markdown links, again, is this an agreed convention these days? Happy to go with it if so. In specific situations like these, I prefer to use the macros as a defensive mechanism if we ever decide to change URL structure in the future.
